[docs] Batch11 date and time functions (#16926)
apache/druid: docs/querying/sql-functions.md

## EXTRACT

> Extracts the value of some unit of the timestamp. 

Reviewer: Should this say "from the timestamp"?

Author: Extracts the value of a unit from the timestamp

* **Syntax:** `EXTRACT(unit FROM timestamp_expr)`
* **Function type:** Scalar, date and time

<details><summary>Example</summary>

The following example extracts the year from the `__time` column from the `taxi-trips` datasource.

```sql
SELECT 
  "__time" AS "original_time",
  EXTRACT(YEAR FROM "__time" ) AS "year"
FROM "taxi-trips"
LIMIT 1
```

Returns the following:

| `original_time` | `year` |
| -- | -- |

> | `2013-08-01T08:14:37.000Z` | `2013` |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `2013-08-01T08:14:37.000Z` | `2,013` |
```
The query as written returns 2,103.  Another option would be to cast the year as string:
`CAST(EXTRACT(YEAR FROM "__time" ) AS varchar) AS "year"`

It's weird this may just be the display showing 2,013 if you show the full value, it doesn't use the commas.

Author: Will ignore since in context of year `2013` (inspect value) is more relevant than initial UI

## MILLIS_TO_TIMESTAMP

Converts a number of milliseconds since epoch into a timestamp.

* **Syntax:** `MILLIS_TO_TIMESTAMP(millis_expr)`
* **Function type:** Scalar, date and time

<details><summary>Example</summary>

> The following example converts `1375344877000` milliseconds from epoch into a timestamp. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example converts 1375344877000 milliseconds from epoch into a timestamp. 
```
The number of milliseconds doesn't need to be in code font.

## TIME_IN_INTERVAL

Returns whether a timestamp is contained within a particular interval. Intervals must be formatted as a string literal containing any ISO 8601 interval. The start instant of an interval is inclusive, and the end instant is exclusive.

* **Syntax:** `TIME_IN_INTERVAL(timestamp_expr, interval)`
* **Function type:** Scalar, date and time

<details><summary>Example</summary>

> The following example returns `true` when a timestamp in the `__time` column from the `taxi-trips` datasource is in an one hour interval starting from `2013-08-01T08:00:00`. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following example returns `true` when a timestamp in the `__time` column from the `taxi-trips` datasource is in an one hour interval starting from `2013-08-01T08:00:00`. 

```

## TIME_IN_INTERVAL

> Returns whether a timestamp is contained within a particular interval. Intervals must be formatted as a string literal containing any ISO 8601 interval. The start instant of an interval is inclusive, and the end instant is exclusive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns true if a timestamp is contained within a particular interval. Intervals must be formatted as a string literal containing any ISO 8601 interval. The start instant of an interval is inclusive, and the end instant is exclusive.
```
Updated to improve readability.

* **Syntax:** `TIME_IN_INTERVAL(timestamp_expr, interval)`
* **Function type:** Scalar, date and time

<details><summary>Example</summary>

> The following example returns `true` when a timestamp in the `__time` column from the `taxi-trips` datasource is in an one hour interval starting from `2013-08-01T08:00:00`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example returns `true` when a timestamp in the `__time` column of the `taxi-trips` datasource is within an hour interval starting from `2013-08-01T08:00:00`. 
```

Author: just changed "within an hour" -> "within a hour"

## TIMESTAMP_TO_MILLIS

Returns the number of milliseconds since epoch for the given timestamp.

* **Syntax:** `TIMESTAMP_TO_MILLIS(timestamp_expr)`
* **Function type:** Scalar, date and time

<details><summary>Example</summary>

The following example converts the `__time` column from the `taxi-trips` datasource into milliseconds since epoch.

```sql
SELECT 
  "__time" AS "original_time",
  TIMESTAMP_TO_MILLIS("__time") AS "miliseconds"
FROM "taxi-trips"
LIMIT 1
```

Returns the following:

| `original_time` | `miliseconds` |
| -- | -- |
| `2013-08-01T08:14:37.000Z` | `1375344877000` |

</details>

[Learn more](sql-scalar.md#date-and-time-functions)

## TIMESTAMPADD

> Adds a `unit` of time to `timestamp` a total of `count` times.

Reviewer 2: this reads awkwardly. Suggest:
> Adds a `unit` of time multiplied by a `count` to  a`timestamp`.
or similar.

* **Syntax:** `TIMESTAMPADD(unit, count, timestamp)`
* **Function type:** Scalar, date and time

<details><summary>Example</summary>

> The following example adds five months to the timestamp `2000-01-01 00:00:00`.

Reviewer: Should the timestamp in the intro sentence and the example that follows be `2000-01-01T00:00:00.000Z` for consistency? To match what is in the results table?

Author: No, from what I can tell, when parsing a string as a timestamp it MUST follow a specific format (yyyy-MM-dd) otherwise If I try to use the other method I get the error:

```llegal TIMESTAMP literal '2000-01-01T00:00:00.000Z': not in format 'yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss```

```sql
SELECT
  TIMESTAMP '2000-01-01 00:00:00' AS "original_time",
  TIMESTAMPADD (MONTH, 5, TIMESTAMP '2000-01-01 00:00:00') AS "new_time"
```

Returns the following:

| `original_time` | `new_time` |
| -- | -- |
| `2000-01-01T00:00:00.000Z` | `2000-06-01T00:00:00.000Z` |

</details>

[Learn more](sql-scalar.md#date-and-time-functions)

## TIMESTAMPDIFF

> Returns the difference between two timestamps in the given `unit`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns the difference between two timestamps in a given unit.
```
Since timestamp is not in code font, let's remove code font from unit.

## TIMESTAMP_TO_MILLIS

Returns the number of milliseconds since epoch for the given timestamp.

* **Syntax:** `TIMESTAMP_TO_MILLIS(timestamp_expr)`
* **Function type:** Scalar, date and time

<details><summary>Example</summary>

> The following example converts the `__time` timestamp column from the `taxi-trips` datasource into milliseconds since epoch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example converts the `__time` column from the `taxi-trips` datasource into milliseconds since epoch.
```
We can omit the word "timestamp" to shorten the sentence.

```sql
SELECT 
  "__time" AS "original_time",
  TIMESTAMP_TO_MILLIS("__time") AS "miliseconds"
FROM "taxi-trips"
LIMIT 1
```

Returns the following:

| `original_time` | `miliseconds` |
| -- | -- |
| `2013-08-01T08:14:37.000Z` | `1375344877000` |

</details>

[Learn more](sql-scalar.md#date-and-time-functions)

## TIMESTAMPADD

> Adds `count` number of a `unit` to a given timestamp.

Reviewer: I think the original description was clearer. Maybe something like this "Adds a `count` number of  time `unit` to a given timestamp?"

Author: How about "Adds a `unit` of time to `timestamp` a total of `count` times."

* **Syntax:** `TIMESTAMPADD(unit, count, timestamp)`
* **Function type:** Scalar, date and time

<details><summary>Example</summary>

> The following example adds five months to the timestamp `2000-01-01 00:00:00`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example adds five months to the timestamp `2000-01-01 00:00:00`.
```

```sql
SELECT
  TIMESTAMP '2000-01-01 00:00:00' AS "original_time",
  TIMESTAMPADD (MONTH, 5, TIMESTAMP '2000-01-01 00:00:00') AS "new_time"
```

Returns the following:

| `original_time` | `new_time` |
| -- | -- |
| `2000-01-01T00:00:00.000Z` | `2000-06-01T00:00:00.000Z` |

</details>

[Learn more](sql-scalar.md#date-and-time-functions)

## TIMESTAMPDIFF

> Takes the difference between two timestamps, returning the results in the given units.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns the difference between two timestamps in the given `unit`.
```
Simplified the description to improve readability.

* **Syntax:** `TIMESTAMPDIFF(unit, timestamp1, timestamp2)`
* **Function type:** Scalar, date and time

<details><summary>Example</summary>

> The following example takes the difference between the `__time` and `dropoff_datetime` columns from the `taxi-trips` datasource to find the length of the taxi trip in minutes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example calculates the taxi trip length in minutes by subtracting the `__time` column from the `dropoff_datetime` column in the `taxi-trips` datasource.
```
Rearranged the text to improve readability. I'm assuming that the function subtracts one value from another?

Author: That is how the function works

Author: I agree, your example improves readablility
